
1
MMLU-Pro: A More Robust and Challenging
Multi-Task Language Understanding Benchmark
1Yubo Wang∗, 1Xueguang Ma∗, 1Ge Zhang, 1Yuansheng Ni, 1Abhranil Chandra,1Shiguang Guo, 1Weiming Ren, 1Aaran Arulraj, 1Xuan He, 1Ziyan Jiang, 1Tianle Li,1Max Ku, 2Kai Wang, 1Alex Zhuang, 1Rongqi Fan, 3Xiang Yue, 1Wenhu Chen∗
1University of Waterloo, 2University of Toronto, 3Carnegie Mellon University
Abstract
In the age of large-scale language models, benchmarks like the Massive Multitask
Language Understanding (MMLU) have been pivotal in pushing the boundaries
of what AI can achieve in language comprehension and reasoning across diverse
domains. However, as models continue to improve, their performance on these
benchmarks has begun to plateau, making it increasingly difficult to discern dif-
ferences in model capabilities. This paper introduces MMLU-Pro, an enhanced
dataset designed to extend the mostly knowledge-driven MMLU benchmark by in-
tegrating more challenging, reasoning-focused questions and expanding the choice
set from four to ten options. Additionally, MMLU-Pro eliminates the trivial and
noisy questions in MMLU. Our experimental results show that MMLU-Pro not
only raises the challenge, causing a significant drop in accuracy by 16% to 33%
compared to MMLU but also demonstrates greater stability under varying prompts.
With 24 different prompt styles tested, the sensitivity of model scores to prompt
variations decreased from 4-5% in MMLU to just 2% in MMLU-Pro. Additionally,
we found that models utilizing Chain of Thought (CoT) reasoning achieved better
performance on MMLU-Pro compared to direct answering, which is in stark con-
trast to the findings on the original MMLU, indicating that MMLU-Pro includes
more complex reasoning questions. Our assessments confirm that MMLU-Pro is a
more discriminative benchmark to better track progress in the field.
Figure 1: Comparing between MMLU and MMLU-Pro: (Left) Performance gap; (Center) Accuracy
distributions affected by 24 prompts, with taller and thinner profiles indicating more stability and
shorter and wider profiles indicating greater fluctuations; (Right) Performance using CoT vs. Direct.
∗Core Contributors. B: {y726wang, x93ma, wenhuchen}@uwaterloo.ca
38th Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems (NeurIPS 2024) Track on Datasets and Benchmarks.
arXiv:2406.01574v6  [cs.CL]  6 Nov 2024
1 Introduction
In recent years, advancements in large language models (LLMs) have significantly transformed
the field of natural language processing (NLP). These models, including state-of-the-art examples
like GPT-4, Gemini, and Claude [2, 30, 6], are pushing the envelope both in general applicability
across various tasks and specialized performance in specific areas. A key objective in this ongoing
development is achieving expert-level intelligence, characterized by performance that meets or
surpasses the top 10% of skilled adults in a diverse range of tasks [26].
To effectively track the progress towards the goal of this expert-level intelligence, it is essential to
evaluate these models on a broad range of tasks. There are multiple popular benchmarks used to
measure such general intelligence. For example, AGIEval [48] focuses on general-exam questions
from SAT, Gaokao, GRE, etc. ARC [12] focuses on science-based questions. BBH [33] focuses on
solving hard synthetic tasks. MMLU [18] includes a broad range of exam questions from 57 subjects
across STEM, the humanities, the social sciences, etc. Among these benchmarks, MMLU emerged
as the de facto standard for evaluating LLMs due to its broad coverage and high quality. However,
the rapid progress of current LLMs has quickly led to performance saturation on MMLU. Since
GPT-4 achieved 86.4% in March 2023, there has not been any significant progress on the benchmark.
Most recent frontier models like GPT-4-Turbo, Gemini-1.5-Pro, Claude, and LLaMA-3-400B (all
published in early-mid 2024) all settle at an accuracy between 86% - 87%. The recent published
GPT-4o has achieved remarkable performance boost (10+% improvement) on MATH [19], Chatbot
Arena [11]. However, it only obtains 1% improvement on MMLU to obtain 87.4%. This leads us to
re-examine the effectiveness of MMLU in measuring future (stronger) LLMs. Besides the saturation
issue, the performance on MMLU is also known to be highly sensitive to the prompt and scoring
function [47, 3], which causes significant order changes in the leaderboard. Here, we conjecture that
these issues are due to the following causes:
1. The questions in MMLU only have three distractor options. LLMs could potentially exploit
shortcuts to derive the answer without truly understanding the rationale. This could lead to an
overestimate of LLMs’ true performance, also leading to a degree of instability.
2. The questions in MMLU are mostly knowledge-driven without requiring too much reasoning,
especially in the STEM subjects, which reduces its difficulty. In fact, most models achieve better
performance with ‘direct’ answer prediction without chain-of-thought [41].
3. There is a portion of questions that are either unanswerable or mistakenly annotated. This dataset
noise leads to a lower ceiling, which the frontier models hit.
These issues have highlighted the need for more challenging, discriminative, and reliable datasets to
track the progress of LLMs. In this paper, we introduce MMLU-Pro: a comprehensive benchmark
designed for proficient-level multi-discipline language understanding and reasoning. MMLU-Pro
spans 14 diverse domains including mathematics, physics, chemistry, law, engineering, psychology,
and health, encompassing over 12,000 questions and thus meeting the breadth requirement. MMLU-
Pro is distinctive from MMLU in the following aspects:
1. MMLU-Pro has ten options, which contain 3x more distractors than MMLU. By increasing the
distractor numbers, we significantly reduce the probability of correct guess by chance to boost the
benchmark’s difficulty and robustness.
2. MMLU-Pro increases the portion of challenging college-level exam problems. These questions
require LLM to perform deliberate reasoning in different domains to derive the final answer.
3. We integrate two rounds of expert reviews to reduce the noise of the dataset. The first round is
based on expert verification. In the second round, we utilize the SoTA LLMs to identify potential
errors and employ annotators to perform more targeted verification.
We evaluated more than 50 LLMs including open-source and closed-source models, such as GPT-
4o [17], Claude-3-Opus [6], and Gemini [30], LLaMA-3 [35], Phi-3 [1] on MMLU-Pro. Our key
findings are summarized as follows:
1. MMLU-Pro presents significant challenges; notably, the leading model, GPT-4o, only achieves an
accuracy of 72.6% and GPT-4-Turbo reaches 63.7%, indicating substantial room for improvement.
2
